README.md, before:

# Grape-Academic-Theme

<a href="https://jekyll-themes.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/featured%20on-JekyllThemes-red.svg" height="20" alt="Jekyll Themes Shield" loading="lazy">
</a>

---

![home](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme/assets/img/portfolio.png)

Welcome to Grape Academic Theme!
This theme is based on [Grape Theme](https://github.com/naye0ng/Grape-Theme) and modifies it to be more directly applicable as an academic portfolio page.
It can still include a blog, but that is optional.

[Demo](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme)

## Features

Some of these features are optional and can be turned on or off in the `_config.yml` file.

### [Portfolio Homepage](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme)

Portfolio page giving an overview of your research.

### [Publications List](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme/publications)

A optional list of your publications auto-generated from a BibTeX file.
Additional information can be linked to from the BibTeX file.

### [Presentations List](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme/presentations)

A optional list of your presentations auto-generated for a data file.

### [Blog](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme/blog)

An optional blog for any posts you want to publish.

### [Hub Pages](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme/example-hub)

Hub pages are intended for easy linking in your presentations.
They collect links and additional information related to your presentation so that you only have to put one link on your slides.
They can be manually generated or automatically from one of your publication entries.

## Installation and Serving Local Version for Testing

1. Fork and clone the Grape Academic Theme repo

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/chrjabs/Grape-Academic-Theme.git
   ```

2. Install Jekyll 

   ```
   gem install jekyll
   ```

3. Install the theme's dependencies

   ```
   bundle install
   ```

4. Update `_config.yml`, `_data/projects.yml`, `_data/projects.yml` and `_bibliography/publications.bib` with your own settings.

5. Run the Jekyll server

   ```
   bundle exec jekyll serve
   ```

## Publishing

Grape-Academic-Theme uses jekyll-scholar and therefore needs to manually be published to GitHub pages.
A script for publishing on a `gh-pages` branch is included.
Run `_scripts/publish.sh` from the main project directory and the page will be built, copied to the `gh-pages` branch and published.
Make sure that GitHub pages is set up to publish that branch.
If additional scripts should be executed in the HTML root, they can be placed in `_scripts/publish.d` and will be automatically executed.

These are step-by-step instructions for forking and publishing the theme at your `<username>.github.io` github pages website:

1. For the repository to a repository named `<username>/<username>.github.io`
2. Go to the settings of the new repository and navigate to the "Pages" tab.
  There, change the source for github pages to the `gh-pages` branch of the repository.
3. Clone the repository and go through the installation steps listed above
4. In `_config.yml`, change the `baseurl` option to an empty string (`""`) to host the webpage in the root of your `github.io` page
5. Commit the change and (with a working jekyll install) run `_scripts/publish.sh`
6. _Wait a couple of minutes_ and the demo content will show up at `<username>.github.io`

## Customizing

Grape-Theme has two great features: the profile section and the project section of the portfolio page. Just by changing `_config.yml` and `projects.yml`, you can use all of these features.

### Feature Settings

The blog, publications, and presentations pages are optional and can be turned on or off in the config file.

### Favicon

Generate your favicons with [realfavicongenerator.net](https://realfavicongenerator.net/) and place them in the root directory.
The code to include them is already set up in the template.

### Site configuration

```
baseurl: "{subpath}"

theme_settings :
  title: {blog title}
```

### Profile Settings

Profile is displayed on the index page, and also experience and skills are displayed on the portfolio page.
The profile is configured in `_data/profile.yml`.

```
image: assets/img/smile.png
username: Christoph Jabs
description: creator of the Grape-Academic-Theme! Grape-Academic-Theme is a modification of the Grape-Theme by naye0ng, making it more suitable as an academic portfolio.
webpage: https://chrjabs.github.io
experience:
  - start: 2017-05-03
    end: 2018-05-06
    experience : company name, title
interests:
  - Interest 1
  - Interest 2
skills: 
  - skill: HTML5 & CSS
    value: 85  # Percent value
```

### Presentations

The data for the presentations page can be defined in `data/presentations.yml`.

```
- presentation:
    title: A nice presentation
    event: Fancy conference
    date: 05/2022
    comment: This is some comment text that can do _Markdown_
    slides: https://www.google.com # potential link to slides
- presentation:
    title: A second presentation
    event: Another conference
    date: 03/2022
```

### Hub Pages

For an example on how to configure a hub page, see the `example-hub.md` file.

### Pagination

Defines the number of posts to be shown on one page.

```
paginate: 5
```

### Portfolio Settings

![home](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme/assets/img/portfolio.png)

The Project configuration is available in `_data/projects.yml`.

The portfolio page provides projects and detailed views by modal.
If `modal : False` is selected, modal will not be displayed on site. 

- **print** : 
  
  - If `print: True` is selected, it will be displayed on landing page
  
- **modal** 
  
  - If `modal: True` is selected, modal will be displayed on the Portfolio page
  
    ![home](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme/assets/img/modal.png)

```
print: True
modal: True  
```

Add details(link, description) about your projects

```
url: https://github.com/naye0ng/Grape-Theme # Full URL
image: "portfolio.png" # path: assets/project/
date: 2019.06.09 - 2019.07.11
title: 
summary: 
description:  
# modal contents
contents:
  - title:
    image:      	    
    description: 
```

### Colors

You can change colors at once. colors are in `_sass/base/_variable.scss`

## Posts in Grape theme

You can confirm how to draw tags at [here](https://grape-theme.netlify.com/2019/06/08/markdown-and-html.html) and [here](https://grape-theme.netlify.com/2019/06/09/grape-theme-style.html)

### Create a new post

1. Create a `.md` inside `_posts` folder
   ```
   2019-07-11-grape-theme.md
   ```

2. Write the [Front Matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/) and content in the file.
   ```
   ---
   layout: post
   title: title
   subtitle : subtitle
   tags: [tag1, tag2]
   author: 
   comments : 
   ---
   ```

## Licence

The theme is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT Licence](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

publish commit 54d0ce3a1b745b14261fb3ee09b366cc535ae4d0

README.md, after:

# Grape-Academic-Theme

<a href="https://jekyll-themes.com">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/featured%20on-JekyllThemes-red.svg" height="20" alt="Jekyll Themes Shield" loading="lazy">
</a>

---

![home](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme/assets/img/portfolio.png)

Welcome to Grape Academic Theme!
This theme is based on [Grape Theme](https://github.com/naye0ng/Grape-Theme) and modifies it to be more directly applicable as an academic portfolio page.
It can still include a blog, but that is optional.

[Demo](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme)

## Features

Some of these features are optional and can be turned on or off in the `_config.yml` file.

### [Portfolio Homepage](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme)

Portfolio page giving an overview of your research.

### [Publications List](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme/publications)

A optional list of your publications auto-generated from a BibTeX file.
Additional information can be linked to from the BibTeX file.

### [Presentations List](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme/presentations)

A optional list of your presentations auto-generated for a data file.

### [Blog](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme/blog)

An optional blog for any posts you want to publish.

### [Hub Pages](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme/example-hub)

Hub pages are intended for easy linking in your presentations.
They collect links and additional information related to your presentation so that you only have to put one link on your slides.
They can be manually generated or automatically from one of your publication entries.

## Installation and Serving Local Version for Testing

1. Fork and clone the Grape Academic Theme repo

   ```
   git clone https://github.com/chrjabs/Grape-Academic-Theme.git
   ```

2. Install Jekyll 

   ```
   gem install jekyll
   ```

3. Install the theme's dependencies

   ```
   bundle install
   ```

4. Update `_config.yml`, `_data/projects.yml`, `_data/projects.yml` and `_bibliography/publications.bib` with your own settings.

5. Run the Jekyll server

   ```
   bundle exec jekyll serve
   ```

## Publishing

Grape-Academic-Theme uses jekyll-scholar and therefore needs to manually be published to GitHub pages.
A script for publishing on a `gh-pages` branch is included.
Run `_scripts/publish.sh` from the main project directory and the page will be built, copied to the `gh-pages` branch and published.
Make sure that GitHub pages is set up to publish that branch.
If additional scripts should be executed in the HTML root, they can be placed in `_scripts/publish.d` and will be automatically executed.

These are step-by-step instructions for forking and publishing the theme at your `<username>.github.io` github pages website:

1. For the repository to a repository named `<username>/<username>.github.io`
2. Go to the settings of the new repository and navigate to the "Pages" tab.
  There, change the source for github pages to the `gh-pages` branch of the repository.
3. Clone the repository and go through the installation steps listed above
4. In `_config.yml`, change the `baseurl` option to an empty string (`""`) to host the webpage in the root of your `github.io` page
5. Commit the change and (with a working jekyll install) run `_scripts/publish.sh`
6. _Wait a couple of minutes_ and the demo content will show up at `<username>.github.io`

---
<span style = "color:darkblue; font-size = 3mm"> ***After each publish, switch `Pages` -> `Branch` back to `master`. Whenever want to publish agin -> switch to `gh-pages`*** </span>

## Customizing

Grape-Theme has two great features: the profile section and the project section of the portfolio page. Just by changing `_config.yml` and `projects.yml`, you can use all of these features.

### Feature Settings

The blog, publications, and presentations pages are optional and can be turned on or off in the config file.

### Favicon

Generate your favicons with [realfavicongenerator.net](https://realfavicongenerator.net/) and place them in the root directory.
The code to include them is already set up in the template.

### Site configuration

```
baseurl: "{subpath}"

theme_settings :
  title: {blog title}
```

### Profile Settings

Profile is displayed on the index page, and also experience and skills are displayed on the portfolio page.
The profile is configured in `_data/profile.yml`.

```
image: assets/img/smile.png
username: Christoph Jabs
description: creator of the Grape-Academic-Theme! Grape-Academic-Theme is a modification of the Grape-Theme by naye0ng, making it more suitable as an academic portfolio.
webpage: https://chrjabs.github.io
experience:
  - start: 2017-05-03
    end: 2018-05-06
    experience : company name, title
interests:
  - Interest 1
  - Interest 2
skills: 
  - skill: HTML5 & CSS
    value: 85  # Percent value
```

### Presentations

The data for the presentations page can be defined in `data/presentations.yml`.

```
- presentation:
    title: A nice presentation
    event: Fancy conference
    date: 05/2022
    comment: This is some comment text that can do _Markdown_
    slides: https://www.google.com # potential link to slides
- presentation:
    title: A second presentation
    event: Another conference
    date: 03/2022
```

### Hub Pages

For an example on how to configure a hub page, see the `example-hub.md` file.

### Pagination

Defines the number of posts to be shown on one page.

```
paginate: 5
```

### Portfolio Settings

![home](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme/assets/img/portfolio.png)

The Project configuration is available in `_data/projects.yml`.

The portfolio page provides projects and detailed views by modal.
If `modal : False` is selected, modal will not be displayed on site. 

- **print** : 
  
  - If `print: True` is selected, it will be displayed on landing page
  
- **modal** 
  
  - If `modal: True` is selected, modal will be displayed on the Portfolio page
  
    ![home](https://chrjabs.github.io/Grape-Academic-Theme/assets/img/modal.png)

```
print: True
modal: True  
```

Add details(link, description) about your projects

```
url: https://github.com/naye0ng/Grape-Theme # Full URL
image: "portfolio.png" # path: assets/project/
date: 2019.06.09 - 2019.07.11
title: 
summary: 
description:  
# modal contents
contents:
  - title:
    image:      	    
    description: 
```

### Colors

You can change colors at once. colors are in `_sass/base/_variable.scss`

## Posts in Grape theme

You can confirm how to draw tags at [here](https://grape-theme.netlify.com/2019/06/08/markdown-and-html.html) and [here](https://grape-theme.netlify.com/2019/06/09/grape-theme-style.html)

### Create a new post

1. Create a `.md` inside `_posts` folder
   ```
   2019-07-11-grape-theme.md
   ```

2. Write the [Front Matter](https://jekyllrb.com/docs/front-matter/) and content in the file.
   ```
   ---
   layout: post
   title: title
   subtitle : subtitle
   tags: [tag1, tag2]
   author: 
   comments : 
   ---
   ```

## Licence

The theme is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT Licence](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
